content/docs/command-reference/repro.md, before:

# repro

Reproduce complete or partial [pipelines](/doc/command-reference/dag) by
executing commands defined in their [stages](/doc/command-reference/run) in the
correct order. The commands to be executed are determined by recursively
analyzing dependencies and <abbr>outputs</abbr> of the target stages.

## Synopsis

```usage
usage: dvc repro [-h] [-q | -v] [-f] [-s] [-c <path>] [-m] [--dry] [-i]
                 [-p] [-P] [-R] [--no-run-cache] [--force-downstream]
                 [--no-commit] [--downstream] [--pull] [--glob]
                 [targets [targets ...]]

positional arguments:
  targets        Stage or path to dvc.yaml or .dvc file to reproduce.
                 Using -R, directories to search for stages can also
                 be given. If no targets are provided, it is assumed
                 to be the dvc.yaml present in the current working
                 directory.

                 A stage from a dvc.yaml in a different directory can
                 be specified using a path to the dvc.yaml, followed
                 by a colon `:`, followed by the name of the stage
                 (example: `../dvc.yaml:prepare`).

                 Using --glob, the targets are used as a pattern to
                 match stages in the specified file.
```

## Description

`dvc repro` provides a way to regenerate data pipeline results, by restoring the
dependency graph (a [DAG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph))
implicitly defined by the stages listed in `dvc.yaml`. The commands defined in
these stages can then be executed in the correct order, reproducing pipeline
results.

> Pipeline stages are defined in a
> [`dvc.yaml` file](/doc/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories#dvcyaml-file)
> (either manually or by using `dvc run`) while initial data dependencies can be
> registered with `dvc add`.

This command is similar to [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) in
software build automation, but DVC captures build requirements
([dependencies and outputs](/doc/command-reference/run#dependencies-and-outputs))
and <abbr>caches</abbr> the pipeline's <abbr>outputs</abbr> along the way.

💡 For convenience, a Git hook is available to remind you to `dvc repro` when
needed after a `git commit`. See `dvc install` for more details.

`dvc repro` does not run `dvc fetch`, `dvc pull` or `dvc checkout` to get data
files, intermediate or final results (except if the `--pull` option is used).

By default, this command checks all [pipeline](/doc/command-reference/dag)
stages to determine which ones have changed. Then it executes the corresponding
commands. [Stage](/doc/command-reference/run) outputs are deleted from the
<abbr>workspace</abbr> before executing the stage commands that produce them.

There are a few ways to restrict what will be regenerated by this command: by
specifying stages as `targets`, or by using the `--single-item`, `--cwd`, among
other options.

> Note that stages without dependencies are considered _always changed_, so
> `dvc repro` always executes them.

It saves all the data files, intermediate or final results into the <abbr>DVC
cache</abbr> (unless the `--no-commit` option is used), and updates the hash
values of changed dependencies and outputs in the `dvc.lock` and `.dvc` files.

### Parallel stage execution

Currently, `dvc repro` is not able to parallelize stage execution automatically.
If you need to do this, you can launch `dvc repro` multiple times manually. For
example, let's say a <abbr>pipeline</abbr> graph looks something like this:

```dvc
$ dvc dag
+--------+          +--------+
|   A1   |          |   B1   |
+--------+          +--------+
     *                   *
     *                   *
     *                   *
+--------+          +--------+
|   A2   |          |   B2   |
+--------+          +--------+
          *         *
           **     **
             *   *
        +------------+
        |    train   |
        +------------+
```

This pipeline consists of two parallel branches (`A` and `B`), and the final
`train` stage, where the branches merge. If you run `dvc repro` at this point,
it would reproduce each branch sequentially before `train`. To reproduce both
branches simultaneously, you could run `dvc repro A2` and `dvc repro B2` at the
same time (e.g. in separate terminals). After both finish successfully, you can
then run `dvc repro train`: DVC will know that both branches are already
up-to-date and only execute the final stage.

## Options

- `-f`, `--force` - reproduce a pipeline, regenerating its results, even if no
  changes were found. This executes all of the stages by default, but it can be
  limited with the `targets` argument, or the `-s`, `-p`, `-c` options.

- `-s`, `--single-item` - reproduce only a single stage by turning off the
  recursive search for changed dependencies. Multiple stages are executed
  (non-recursively) if multiple stage names are given as `targets`.

- `-c <path>`, `--cwd <path>` - (**deprecated**) this is now supported for any
  command with the global [`dvc --cd <path>`](/doc/command-reference) option.

  Directory within the project to reproduce from. `targets` will be searched
  relative to this path. Instead of using `--cwd`, one can alternately specify a
  target in a subdirectory as `path/to/target.dvc`. This option can be useful
  for example with subdirectories containing a separate pipeline that can be
  reproduced independently.

- `-R`, `--recursive` - determines the stages to reproduce by searching each
  target directory and its subdirectories for stages (in `dvc.yaml`) to inspect.
  If there are no directories among the targets, this option is ignored.

- `--no-commit` - do not save outputs to cache. A DVC-file is created, while
  nothing is added to the cache. (`dvc status` will report that the file is
  `not in cache`.) Use `dvc commit` when ready to commit outputs with DVC.
  Useful to avoid caching unnecessary data repeatedly when running multiple
  experiments.

- `-m`, `--metrics` - show metrics after reproduction. The target pipelines must
  have at least one metrics file defined either with the `dvc metrics` command,
  or by the `-M` or `-m` options of the `dvc run` command.

- `--dry` - only print the commands that would be executed without actually
  executing the commands.

- `-i`, `--interactive` - ask for confirmation before reproducing each stage.
  The stage is only executed if the user types "y".

- `-p`, `--pipeline` - reproduce the entire pipelines that the `targets` belong
  to. Use `dvc dag <target>` to show the parent pipeline of a target.

- `-P`, `--all-pipelines` - reproduce all pipelines for all `dvc.yaml` files
  present in the DVC project.

- `--no-run-cache` - execute stage commands even if they have already been run
  with the same dependencies/outputs/etc. before.

- `--force-downstream` - in cases like `... -> A (changed) -> B -> C` it will
  reproduce `A` first and then `B`, even if `B` was previously executed with the
  same inputs from `A` (cached). To be precise, it reproduces all descendants of
  a changed stage or the stages following the changed stage, even if their
  direct dependencies did not change.

  It can be useful when we have a common dependency among all stages, and want
  to specify it only once (for stage `A` here). For example, if we know that all
  stages (`A` and below) depend on `requirements.txt`, we can specify it in `A`,
  and omit it in `B` and `C`.

  Like with the same option on `dvc run`, this is a way to force-execute stages
  without changes. This can also be useful for pipelines containing stages that
  produce non-deterministic (semi-random) outputs, where outputs can vary on
  each execution, meaning the cache cannot be trusted for such stages.

- `--downstream` - only execute the stages after the given `targets` in their
  corresponding pipelines, including the target stages themselves. This option
  has no effect if `targets` are not provided.

- `--pull` - [pulls](/doc/command-reference/pull) dependencies and outputs
  involved in the stages being reproduced, if they are found in the
  [default](/doc/command-reference/remote/default) remote storage. Note that it
  checks the local run-cache too (available history of stage runs).

  > Has no effect if combined with `--no-run-cache`.

- `--glob` - allows running the stages from a file that match the wildcard
  [pattern](https://docs.python.org/3/library/glob.html) specified in `targets`.
  Note that it does not match pattern with the path, only to the stages present
  in the specified file.

- `-h`, `--help` - prints the usage/help message, and exit.

- `-q`, `--quiet` - do not write anything to standard output. Exit with 0 if all
  stages are up to date or if all stages are successfully executed, otherwise
  exit with 1. The command defined in the stage is free to write output
  regardless of this flag.

- `-v`, `--verbose` - displays detailed tracing information.

## Examples

> To get hands-on experience with data science and machine learning pipelines,
> see [Get Started: Data Pipelines](/doc/start/data-pipelines).

Let's build and reproduce a simple pipeline. It takes this `text.txt` file:

```
dvc
1231
is
3
the
best
```

And runs a few simple transformations to filter and count numbers:

```dvc
$ dvc run -n filter -d text.txt -o numbers.txt \
           "cat text.txt | egrep '[0-9]+' > numbers.txt"

$ dvc run -n count -d numbers.txt -d process.py -M count.txt \
           "python process.py numbers.txt > count.txt"
```

Where `process.py` is a script that, for simplicity, just prints the number of
lines:

```python
import sys
num_lines = 0
with open(sys.argv[1], 'r') as f:
    for line in f:
        num_lines += 1
print(num_lines)
```

The result of executing these `dvc run` commands should look like this:

```dvc
$ tree
.
├── count.txt      <---- result: "2"
├── dvc.lock       <---- file to record pipeline state
├── dvc.yaml       <---- file containing list of stages.
├── numbers.txt    <---- intermediate result of the first stage
├── process.py     <---- code that implements data transformation
└── text.txt       <---- text file to process
```

You may want to check the contents of `dvc.lock` and `count.txt` for later
reference.

Ok, now let's run `dvc repro`:

```dvc
$ dvc repro
Stage 'filter' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'count' didn't change, skipping
Data and pipelines are up to date.
```

It makes sense, since we haven't changed any of the dependencies of this
pipeline (`text.txt` and `process.py`). Now, let's imagine we want to print a
description and we add this line to the `process.py`:

```python
...
print('Number of lines:')
print(num_lines)
```

If we now run `dvc repro`, we should see this:

```dvc
$ dvc repro
Stage 'filter' didn't change, skipping
Running stage 'count' with command:
        python process.py numbers.txt > count.txt
Updating lock file 'dvc.lock'
```

You can now check that `dvc.lock` and `count.txt` have been updated with the new
information: updated dependency/output file hash values, and a new result,
respectively.

## Example: Downstream from a target stage

> This example continues the previous one.

The `--downstream` option, when used with a `target` stage, allows us to only
reproduce results from commands after that specific stage in a pipeline. To
demonstrate how it works, let's make a change in `text.txt` (the input of our
first stage, created in the previous example):

```
...
The answer to universe is 42
- The Hitchhiker's Guide to the  Galaxy
```

Let's say we also want to print the filename in the description, and so we
update the `process.py` as:

```python
print(f'Number of lines in {sys.argv[1]}:')
print(num_lines)
```

Now, using the `--downstream` option with `dvc repro` results in the execution
of only the target (`count`) and following stages (none in this case):

```dvc
$ dvc repro --downstream count
Running stage 'count' with command:
        python process.py numbers.txt > count.txt
Updating lock file 'dvc.lock'
```

The change in `text.txt` is ignored because that file is a dependency in the
`filter` stage, which wasn't executed by the `dvc repro` above. This is because
`filter` happens before the target (`count`) in the pipeline (see `dvc dag`), as
shown below:

```dvc
$ dvc dag

  +--------+
  | filter |
  +--------+
      *
      *
      *
  +-------+
  | count |
  +-------+
```

> Note that using `dvc repro` without `--downstream` in the above example
> results in the execution of the target (`count`), and the preceeding stages
> (only 'filter' in this case).

Commit message:

Move target details to Options

content/docs/command-reference/repro.md, after:

# repro

Reproduce complete or partial [pipelines](/doc/command-reference/dag) by
executing commands defined in their [stages](/doc/command-reference/run) in the
correct order. The commands to be executed are determined by recursively
analyzing dependencies and <abbr>outputs</abbr> of the target stages.

## Synopsis

```usage
usage: dvc repro [-h] [-q | -v] [-f] [-s] [-c <path>] [-m] [--dry] [-i]
                 [-p] [-P] [-R] [--no-run-cache] [--force-downstream]
                 [--no-commit] [--downstream] [--pull] [--glob]
                 [targets [<target> ...]]

positional arguments:
  targets        Stage or path to dvc.yaml or .dvc file to reproduce.
                 If no targets are provided, it is assumed to be the
                 dvc.yaml present in the current working directory.
```

See [\<target\>](#options) for more details.

## Description

`dvc repro` provides a way to regenerate data pipeline results, by restoring the
dependency graph (a [DAG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph))
implicitly defined by the stages listed in `dvc.yaml`. The commands defined in
these stages can then be executed in the correct order, reproducing pipeline
results.

> Pipeline stages are defined in a
> [`dvc.yaml` file](/doc/user-guide/dvc-files-and-directories#dvcyaml-file)
> (either manually or by using `dvc run`) while initial data dependencies can be
> registered with `dvc add`.

This command is similar to [Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/) in
software build automation, but DVC captures build requirements
([dependencies and outputs](/doc/command-reference/run#dependencies-and-outputs))
and <abbr>caches</abbr> the pipeline's <abbr>outputs</abbr> along the way.

💡 For convenience, a Git hook is available to remind you to `dvc repro` when
needed after a `git commit`. See `dvc install` for more details.

`dvc repro` does not run `dvc fetch`, `dvc pull` or `dvc checkout` to get data
files, intermediate or final results (except if the `--pull` option is used).

By default, this command checks all [pipeline](/doc/command-reference/dag)
stages to determine which ones have changed. Then it executes the corresponding
commands. [Stage](/doc/command-reference/run) outputs are deleted from the
<abbr>workspace</abbr> before executing the stage commands that produce them.

There are a few ways to restrict what will be regenerated by this command: by
specifying stages as `targets`, or by using the `--single-item`, `--cwd`, among
other options.

> Note that stages without dependencies are considered _always changed_, so
> `dvc repro` always executes them.

It saves all the data files, intermediate or final results into the <abbr>DVC
cache</abbr> (unless the `--no-commit` option is used), and updates the hash
values of changed dependencies and outputs in the `dvc.lock` and `.dvc` files.

### Parallel stage execution

Currently, `dvc repro` is not able to parallelize stage execution automatically.
If you need to do this, you can launch `dvc repro` multiple times manually. For
example, let's say a <abbr>pipeline</abbr> graph looks something like this:

```dvc
$ dvc dag
+--------+          +--------+
|   A1   |          |   B1   |
+--------+          +--------+
     *                   *
     *                   *
     *                   *
+--------+          +--------+
|   A2   |          |   B2   |
+--------+          +--------+
          *         *
           **     **
             *   *
        +------------+
        |    train   |
        +------------+
```

This pipeline consists of two parallel branches (`A` and `B`), and the final
`train` stage, where the branches merge. If you run `dvc repro` at this point,
it would reproduce each branch sequentially before `train`. To reproduce both
branches simultaneously, you could run `dvc repro A2` and `dvc repro B2` at the
same time (e.g. in separate terminals). After both finish successfully, you can
then run `dvc repro train`: DVC will know that both branches are already
up-to-date and only execute the final stage.

## Options

- `<target>` - Specify the stages to reproduce.

  Target can be a name of the stage in the dvc.yaml file or a path to a .dvc or
  a dvc.yaml file. In case of a file, it will reproduce all of the stages
  present in that file.

  With `-R`, the target can be a directory to search for stages.

  With `--glob`, the targets are used as a pattern to match stages in the
  dvc.yaml file (example: `train-*`).

  A stage from a dvc.yaml in a different directory can be specified using a path
  to the dvc.yaml, followed by a colon `:`, followed by the name of the stage
  (`models/dvc.yaml:prepare` for example).

  Similarly, to pattern match the stages on a dvc.yaml in a different directory,
  the pattern could follow after the path and the colon `:`
  (`models/dvc.yaml:train-*` for example).

- `-f`, `--force` - reproduce a pipeline, regenerating its results, even if no
  changes were found. This executes all of the stages by default, but it can be
  limited with the `targets` argument, or the `-s`, `-p`, `-c` options.

- `-s`, `--single-item` - reproduce only a single stage by turning off the
  recursive search for changed dependencies. Multiple stages are executed
  (non-recursively) if multiple stage names are given as `targets`.

- `-c <path>`, `--cwd <path>` - (**deprecated**) this is now supported for any
  command with the global [`dvc --cd <path>`](/doc/command-reference) option.

  Directory within the project to reproduce from. `targets` will be searched
  relative to this path. Instead of using `--cwd`, one can alternately specify a
  target in a subdirectory as `path/to/target.dvc`. This option can be useful
  for example with subdirectories containing a separate pipeline that can be
  reproduced independently.

- `-R`, `--recursive` - determines the stages to reproduce by searching each
  target directory and its subdirectories for stages (in `dvc.yaml`) to inspect.
  If there are no directories among the targets, this option is ignored.

- `--no-commit` - do not save outputs to cache. A DVC-file is created, while
  nothing is added to the cache. (`dvc status` will report that the file is
  `not in cache`.) Use `dvc commit` when ready to commit outputs with DVC.
  Useful to avoid caching unnecessary data repeatedly when running multiple
  experiments.

- `-m`, `--metrics` - show metrics after reproduction. The target pipelines must
  have at least one metrics file defined either with the `dvc metrics` command,
  or by the `-M` or `-m` options of the `dvc run` command.

- `--dry` - only print the commands that would be executed without actually
  executing the commands.

- `-i`, `--interactive` - ask for confirmation before reproducing each stage.
  The stage is only executed if the user types "y".

- `-p`, `--pipeline` - reproduce the entire pipelines that the `targets` belong
  to. Use `dvc dag <target>` to show the parent pipeline of a target.

- `-P`, `--all-pipelines` - reproduce all pipelines for all `dvc.yaml` files
  present in the DVC project.

- `--no-run-cache` - execute stage commands even if they have already been run
  with the same dependencies/outputs/etc. before.

- `--force-downstream` - in cases like `... -> A (changed) -> B -> C` it will
  reproduce `A` first and then `B`, even if `B` was previously executed with the
  same inputs from `A` (cached). To be precise, it reproduces all descendants of
  a changed stage or the stages following the changed stage, even if their
  direct dependencies did not change.

  It can be useful when we have a common dependency among all stages, and want
  to specify it only once (for stage `A` here). For example, if we know that all
  stages (`A` and below) depend on `requirements.txt`, we can specify it in `A`,
  and omit it in `B` and `C`.

  Like with the same option on `dvc run`, this is a way to force-execute stages
  without changes. This can also be useful for pipelines containing stages that
  produce non-deterministic (semi-random) outputs, where outputs can vary on
  each execution, meaning the cache cannot be trusted for such stages.

- `--downstream` - only execute the stages after the given `targets` in their
  corresponding pipelines, including the target stages themselves. This option
  has no effect if `targets` are not provided.

- `--pull` - [pulls](/doc/command-reference/pull) dependencies and outputs
  involved in the stages being reproduced, if they are found in the
  [default](/doc/command-reference/remote/default) remote storage. Note that it
  checks the local run-cache too (available history of stage runs).

  > Has no effect if combined with `--no-run-cache`.

- `--glob` - allows running the stages from a file that match the wildcard
  [pattern](https://docs.python.org/3/library/glob.html) specified in `targets`.
  Note that it does not match pattern with the path, only to the stages present
  in the specified file.

- `-h`, `--help` - prints the usage/help message, and exit.

- `-q`, `--quiet` - do not write anything to standard output. Exit with 0 if all
  stages are up to date or if all stages are successfully executed, otherwise
  exit with 1. The command defined in the stage is free to write output
  regardless of this flag.

- `-v`, `--verbose` - displays detailed tracing information.

## Examples

> To get hands-on experience with data science and machine learning pipelines,
> see [Get Started: Data Pipelines](/doc/start/data-pipelines).

Let's build and reproduce a simple pipeline. It takes this `text.txt` file:

```
dvc
1231
is
3
the
best
```

And runs a few simple transformations to filter and count numbers:

```dvc
$ dvc run -n filter -d text.txt -o numbers.txt \
           "cat text.txt | egrep '[0-9]+' > numbers.txt"

$ dvc run -n count -d numbers.txt -d process.py -M count.txt \
           "python process.py numbers.txt > count.txt"
```

Where `process.py` is a script that, for simplicity, just prints the number of
lines:

```python
import sys
num_lines = 0
with open(sys.argv[1], 'r') as f:
    for line in f:
        num_lines += 1
print(num_lines)
```

The result of executing these `dvc run` commands should look like this:

```dvc
$ tree
.
├── count.txt      <---- result: "2"
├── dvc.lock       <---- file to record pipeline state
├── dvc.yaml       <---- file containing list of stages.
├── numbers.txt    <---- intermediate result of the first stage
├── process.py     <---- code that implements data transformation
└── text.txt       <---- text file to process
```

You may want to check the contents of `dvc.lock` and `count.txt` for later
reference.

Ok, now let's run `dvc repro`:

```dvc
$ dvc repro
Stage 'filter' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'count' didn't change, skipping
Data and pipelines are up to date.
```

It makes sense, since we haven't changed any of the dependencies of this
pipeline (`text.txt` and `process.py`). Now, let's imagine we want to print a
description and we add this line to the `process.py`:

```python
...
print('Number of lines:')
print(num_lines)
```

If we now run `dvc repro`, we should see this:

```dvc
$ dvc repro
Stage 'filter' didn't change, skipping
Running stage 'count' with command:
        python process.py numbers.txt > count.txt
Updating lock file 'dvc.lock'
```

You can now check that `dvc.lock` and `count.txt` have been updated with the new
information: updated dependency/output file hash values, and a new result,
respectively.

## Example: Downstream from a target stage

> This example continues the previous one.

The `--downstream` option, when used with a `target` stage, allows us to only
reproduce results from commands after that specific stage in a pipeline. To
demonstrate how it works, let's make a change in `text.txt` (the input of our
first stage, created in the previous example):

```
...
The answer to universe is 42
- The Hitchhiker's Guide to the  Galaxy
```

Let's say we also want to print the filename in the description, and so we
update the `process.py` as:

```python
print(f'Number of lines in {sys.argv[1]}:')
print(num_lines)
```

Now, using the `--downstream` option with `dvc repro` results in the execution
of only the target (`count`) and following stages (none in this case):

```dvc
$ dvc repro --downstream count
Running stage 'count' with command:
        python process.py numbers.txt > count.txt
Updating lock file 'dvc.lock'
```

The change in `text.txt` is ignored because that file is a dependency in the
`filter` stage, which wasn't executed by the `dvc repro` above. This is because
`filter` happens before the target (`count`) in the pipeline (see `dvc dag`), as
shown below:

```dvc
$ dvc dag

  +--------+
  | filter |
  +--------+
      *
      *
      *
  +-------+
  | count |
  +-------+
```

> Note that using `dvc repro` without `--downstream` in the above example
> results in the execution of the target (`count`), and the preceeding stages
> (only 'filter' in this case).
